A) Introduction
===============

Since the release of PowerUP quite some programs appeared on Aminet,
that supported the PPC. There are a lot of people, though, who theoretically
could support the PPC, but don't so. Against to popular believe you do not
need a PPC Board to start supporting the PPC (of course owning a PPC helps
a great deal...). This brings us back to the old ASM<->C discussion.

I am not a highlanguage-fanatic, but neither am i a ASM-fanatic. I used
both languages in their appropriate places. Principially there are three
ways of doing the job:

I) "Full C Job"

My Image-Viewer WarpView is such a thing, for example, 100% written in C,
and it is DAMNED FAST.

You have to notice, a PPC is *fast*. If you are not the "PPC-Hacker" himselves,
you probably won't get too much MORE speed out of it by doing ASM optimization.
Also the PPC is a RISC CPU, which means that the CPU is not that easy programmable
like a 68k. Well, in some ways, though, it is really GOOD programmable, i would
always prefer coding on a PPC in ASM to coding on a Pentium in ASM.

Also you have to keep in mind, normally you will reach the Amiga's Display
Hardware limits, before you reach the limits of the C-based code. You should
also remember: Anyways, if you do ASM or C PPC Developpement, you have to
learn something new. Moving from 68060 ASM to PPC ASM is not like moving from
68020 to 68060, it is something completely new...

Another advantage: If you do 100% C developpement, you do not even need a
PPC. You can do PPC Developpement on your 68k machine...

II) "Part C, Part ASM"

As always, some stuff cannot be done really fast in C. I would list here
68k emulations :), Chunky-Copy functions, inner Texturemapping loops,...

So it makes sense, starting a project in 100% C, and when a first running
executable exists, optimizing certain parts in ASM.

This method is, what i would recommend to people who already have a PPC Board.

ZhaDoom is done in this way (well, actually up to now it is 100% C, but this
will change soon...).

III) "Full ASM Job"

I don't think this makes any sense. Believe me.

IV) "Part 68k, Part PPC ASM/C"

This would be for Demo-Coders who have all their code in 68k. They could
mix 68k and PPC Code, creating a mixed Binary in the process. If they do the
PPC Part in C, they can even do the work without owning a PPC Board.

My personal recommendation would be to start off with 100% C. You will have
to learn C, anyways, if you do not want life much more difficult than needed,
on PPC... so why not starting with it ? Also, the 68k/PPC parallel developpement
makes this approach really interesting, especially for people who do not yet
own a PPC Board.


