
    This file has been updated since the release of 2.1/2.0 of
    Ldos and Lserial so PLEASE read it carefully!


    From now on Ldos and Lserial are refered to as 'Ldos'.

    REGISTRATION CENTRES

       Residents in north America can now register via the AMOS  Club
    USA & PD Library in the USA. They have the full rights to process
    registrations  and will charge $16 at the time when this document
    was written (92-09-15). They will process registrations until (at
    least) June of 1993.

    Contact:
            AMOS Club USA & PD Library
            P.O. Box 11434
            Milwaukee, WI 53211
            U.S.A

       Users who register via a registration center  will  receive  a
    disk  with the latest release of Ldos. The registration centre do
    NOT need to supply users with a free  update  but  may,  if  they
    wish, sell the latest version of Ldos to already registered users
    for the (low) price of a normal PD-disk.



    DEMO VERSIONS

       If you are not a registered user you will only have access  to
    the    demo  versions  of  Lserial  and  Ldos.  These  are  fully
    functional. The only thing that has been changed are  the  error-
    handling  routines.  Every  time  an  error is generated from the
    extension an alert will pop up and ask the author of the  program
    to  register.  I  hope  this  will  cause  all  serious  users to
    register.

       The demoversions may be uploaded anywhere, put on any  PD-disk
    by  any PD-group as long as the fee for the disk is less than, or
    equal to, the price for a disk from  Fred  Fish.  Docs,  binaries
    (executable  and  libraies),  may not be omitted from the disk or
    the archive. Example programs may be excluded.

       You may not use the demoversions for more than four weeks  and
    you  may  not release any programs to the public without using a,
    by you, registered copy of Ldos/Lserial.



    REGISTERED VERSIONS

       These versions are much smaller than the demoversions  due  to
    removed  error-routine and doesn't contain that anoying requester
    each time an error is generated. By registering you also gain the
    right  to  use  Ldos  or  Lserial  in  any  type   of    program,
    PD/SW/commercial  or  whatsoever.  You  do  NOT have the right to
    modify or disassemble any of the code in Ldos.lib or Lserial.lib.
    You also receive expandable online help to all Ldos  and  Lserial
    commands by just pressing the help-key plus manuals in  hypertext
    format (AmigaGuide format)


    REGISTER

       The registration fee includes a disk with the  latest  version
    of  Ldos  and possibly some other extensions or programs. If Ldos
    gets a major update you will receive one free update. I  can  not
    guarantee  that  there  will be future versions of Ldos. First of
    all I must get enough feedback and registrations,  secondly  Ldos
    seems  to  be  quite  complete for the moment (ie. all commands I
    have found useful have been implemented) My goal is to  get  Ldos
    and  Lserial  as  fast  and bug free as possible. If you have any
    good ideas or suggestions, please contact me (see below).



    GUARANTEE

       I would hereby like to clearly state  that  ALL  registrations
    have  been processed as fast as possible, most of them within one
    or two days, and there is no chance that a registration that  has
    reached me (there always is a small chance that your letter could
    disappear  in  the  post-handling) has been,  or will be ignored.
    Other authors of shareware states (like me) that it is quite safe
    to put cash in an envelope, AS LONG AS YOU COVER THE BILLS WITH A
    PAPER OR SOMETHING!


    HOW TO REGISTER

NOTE!   PLEASE! Check the current rate of exchange BEFORE sending cash
NOTE!   Pound sterling among others seems to be quite unstable at the
NOTE!   moment!!

       I from now on accept cash in american dollars, british  pounds
    and  swedish  crowns  (SEK).  The  registration  fee  is ONLY 100
    crowns! (You don't get much for that sum today,  except  Ldos  :)
    At this moment of writing this is about £10 or $20. People living
    in Scandinavia could use the Postgiro (account # 710803-4716) but
    please  note  that residents outside Sweden need to add 25 crowns
    since the Postoffice charges me this for every  transfer  outside
    Sweden.  If  you  send me any other currency than listed above *I
    can't gurantee that your registration  will  be  processed*  (The
    bank  may charge more than the cash is worth!) If you include one
    or two IRCs I will see to that your cash will  be  sent  back  to
    you,  however,  I can't see that it should be hard for anybody to
    get dollars, pounds or crowns. Of course crowns (SEK) is best, if
    you have a choice.

       I really hope that the fact that I now accept  other  currency
    than  crowns and that there is a registration centre in the U.S.A
    will result in more registered users. There have been  less  than
    ten  registered  users so far, and I think many of you are afraid
    that your money will disappear in the post-handling or even  that
    I  would  rip  you of in order to save money for disk, stamps etc
    (which are quite expensive as a matter  of  fact!). Otherwise the
    general interest in Ldos seems to be quite large.



     SUPPORT

       I will always try  to  support  registered  users  and  answer
    questions  from unregistered users but **PLEASE** only via E-mail
    or normal snail-mail. I've spent to  much  time  hanging  in  the
    phone  lately and I often need to test things before I can give a
    straight answer. All snail-mail will be answered but ONLY if  you
    include  one or even two International Reply Copuons (IRC, can be
    bought at your local post-office). All E-mail that reach me  will
    be answered.

       Please register Ldos and Lserial! I have spent a LOT  of  time
    on programming, fixing bugs and writing manuals. It is not fun to
    receive  more questions and phone calls (on the most weird hours)
    than registrations.


    Send bug reports, cash and comments to:

        Niklas Sjöberg
        Karolineborgsvägen 8
        S-302 41 Halmstad
        SWEDEN

        E-mail to
        "Niklas Sjoberg"        2:203/415.3@Fidonet

        Reachable on OCC-BBS +46 (0)35 60970 "Niklas Sjoberg"

        Phone: PLEASE DON'T


