Pilot 1.2
---------

This is an Atari ST port and extension of an old MS-DOS interpreter for 
the Pilot language. Pilot is a very simple language once designed for 
absolute beginners. It's even easier than Basic.
A commercial version of Pilot was released by Atari for their 8 bit 
computers. However, the language is not widely used anymore but hey - at 
least you can now say that your Atari speaks Pilot!

The orginal version was programmed in 1985 by Dave Taylor (it is often
reffered to as "Taylor-Pilot"). I have found his version by accident 
while looking for some Pilot files for "Tiny Pilot".
"Tiny Pilot" is an even more simple version of Pilot. "Tiny" is an 
original Atari program written in GFA Basic. Tiny Pilot will be released
soon.

Usage:
pilot <file>

pilot.tst is a sample program for the interpreter. The interpreter requires a
Pilot file. There are some Pilot sites out there, try a web search with the
keywords: pilot language programming. Remember that in Taylor-Pilot all 
instructions have to be abbreviated (e.g. you have to write PA and not PAUSE).

UPDATES:
1.2 18/08/2001:
I found out that rpilot (a Pilot interpreter at Sourceforge) understands Y
and N as synonyms for TY and TN. PILOT Atari now supports these synonyms. I
don't recommend using these synonyms because I don't know if they're part of
the standard.

COLOR (CO) command added. An extension made by myself for Pilot Atari.
If <condition>, which is a normal condition-part, is
satisfied, the interpreter changes the text color to <color>. <color> is a
value between 0 and 15. 0 is usually white and 15 black.



1.1 15/08/2001:
PAUSE (PA) command added. This is an extension to the standard made by Nevada 
and Atari Pilot. If <condition>, which is a normal condition-part, is
satisfied, the interpreter pauses for <expression> seconds.
Example: PA(#test<3): 4
Pauses program execution for four seconds if #test is lower than 3.

TYPEHANG (TH) command added. An extension to the standard made by Nevada and
Apple Pilot. The syntax is identical to TYPE (T). The difference is that TH
doesn't print out a line feed.
Example:
TH: Hello
TH: World
Would print out as "Hello World".

CLEARHOME (CH) command added.  An extension to the standard made by Nevada Pilot.
CH clears the screen.

----------
Anyway, have fun with Pilot!
Matthias Jaap

Contact:
mjaap@atariuptodate.de
http://www.mypenguin.de/prg/
Release date: 17.07.2001
This version: 15.08.2001
