

                 Beware of taking sweets from a stranger
                 ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯

The  following  information was kindly provided by "The Amiga International User
Groups Association" (what a mouth full!).  Any references to 'the association'
is this.  Thanx to Roberta Smith DTP and this documents author!

                                   ----------

This  document  has been checked and the information appears to be true - I rang
Joe  at  the telephone number provided in Amiga Shopper and he was going to send
the  Association  some  information  on what he was doing with AMOS, most of the
conversation  seemed to be pretty much as the following item but as I write this
intro  a  week  has passed by and nothing so far has been sent - we sent him the
Association newsletters so perhaps that may have put him off?

P.S  He  was  going to put a group in touch with the Association that does great
     charity work with children.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hello Reader

I first spoke to Mr J way back in the summer of 95, I'd rang him to check out an
advert which I'd seen in one of the Amiga mags.  Two things in the advert caught
my  eye,  firstly F1 licenceware numbers 1-59 now available and second a section
on  a  brilliant  new  game disk for only £1.25.  Nothing odd about that you may
say, but read on...

At  the time F1, which I distribute, was upto about title 91 so why stop at only
59?   The  young chap who answered `Joe' told me that he had just taken over the
AmigaNuts  library and the F1 titles were part of the deal, if all went well the
other  titles  would  be  sent to him following a trial period.  So far so good,
speak  to  steve of F1 to get the end to that little story!!  I then asked about
the  £1.25  game  disk  and got the same story, ie "I've just taken over bah bah
bah..." I explained that I was selling the game as a new just released title for
£9.99, copyright to Summit Software of Pontefract, Yorkshire.  To be fair he did
listen and seemed to take note of what I'd said, so we parted in good cheer, but
a couple of his remarks sent a cold shiver through my ramboard, ouch.

All threw the summer I read the steady stream of adverts for AmigaNuts and Petra
Software,  wondering  if  it  all could be true.  Things like profits to charity
always start to ring alarm bells with me and Anne Robinson.  Then things started
to  happen,  when  my  mate  (Dave  Kirk) ordered the AGA ext from AmigaNuts for
£10.00  and waited 2 months with no reply, Dave rang the local Trading Standards
office  to  see  what  could  be  done.   Trading  Standards  checked with their
Southampton  branch  and it came as no surprise to find that the whole operation
was  under  investigation.   A  few  weeks  later  a young chap called me on the
telephone to enquire about my licenceware scheme, I listened and he chatted away
dropping in names like, Steve Bye, The One, Amos, and coverdisk.  It all sounded
great,  infact  too  great,  the  caller wanted me to send in my licenceware for
inclusion  in  a AMOS page which he was creating for The One magazine.  I needed
to  know  the callers address and when he said Joe Jenkins, Dave who was sitting
nearby  nearly  fell  off  his chair.  I challenged Joe about the AGA ext and he
went  into  a well rehearsed speech blaming everyone from BT to his mates who do
the  copying.  He realised that he'd been rumbled and made a quick retreat, back
under his stone.

I  rang  Steve  Bye  and a few others to warn them of this new venture and hoped
that  it  could  be  stopped  quick.  Since then others have rang me to see if I
could help find Mr J, but the address he gave me is the same one as shown in the
adverts,  a new telephone number was given and this I pasted on to anyone trying
to reach him.


                                  01703 338318


Future publishing even rang to see if I could help locate him, because he owed a
bit  of  cash to them for his ads.  The man at future did say that all magazines
had  been  warned  in  an  attempt to stop more advertising.  I was surprised to
read, following this bold claim in Amiga Shopper, that a chap called Joe Jenkins
had started a new company called Ultimate Software and they would be saving AMOS
and  all  profits  would go to charity.  Quick phone Anne Robinson, it's started
again!!

Well  that's  just  a  small  story  from the big city but a thing like that can
damage  all  our  businesses and mailorder sales, if a company is allowed to put
just  any old crap in their ads and get away with it, customers will think twice
about ordering by post.  By the way Dave's still waiting.

 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Editors note:

The above item is for use by anyone - but please be aware although the story and
events  appear  to  be true - (Legal Cop Out) unless it is proven incorrect.  It
has  to  be  taken as doubtful that he intends to provide any of the projects so
far named at this time.

Magazine  editorial  staff  must be more aware of this kind of attention seeking
editorial  and  try to validate the information - on this occassion a quick call
to  Europress  or the Author of the program would have given the answer - but to
be  fair guys would you assume that someone would want to put this into press if
it was not true?

If we hear from Joe we will let you know and also ask him about the above.


To the programmer of Amos AGA EXT (Does it exist? - {YES ßudda/NFA})
 * if you get to read this and you have not been paid for your services
   have not permited any period of time for the starting up or the
   distributing of your product; then your contract may be null and void -
   so perhaps you may want to re-distribute the program yourself or allow
   an other to do so. First you must get the magazines to place a letter
   stating that the program may no longer be purchased from Joe X or associated
   companies and say (maybe) in the short term you or XYZ? will be distributing
   the program in future. If anyone has obections to this they should contact
   whoever you nominate and explain their objections.


Before  you  do  the  above  send  Joe X another letter, also send a copy to the
association  marked Joe X Co/A.M.I.G.A - dated and sealed - we would be happy to
keep  this as a sealed confirmation of your intent.  So that you have proof that
you  notifyed  the above that you no longer wished to be distributed through his
networks.

PS  Join A.M.I.G.A!

ßudda writes
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
The AMOS AGA extnesion is now available from any F1 Licenceware distributor,
including Active Software.  However from what I've been told the extension is a
little 'pants'.  Why?, because it does not allow AGA icons or sprites and is
simply a collection of commands to open AGA screens, load AGA pictures and play
with the palette.

If I bother to get my hands on it expect a review next issue...
