						147 Winkworth Road,
						Banstead,
						Surrey SM7 2JP
						20/1/93

	Hi all at ACC,
		Firstly big apologies for not writing/contributing
earlier, but I've been plagued by problems. To start with I had a 
few problems with my hard drive (one of those GVP thingies and very
nice they are too!!), a couple of important files went missing and
I couldn't find a back-up anywhere, that'll teach me to not label 
disks !! Then a week or two after that one of my CIA chips decided
to go into early retirement leaving my Amiga next to useless until
I finally managed to find somewhere that stocked replacements.

	Anyway to make up for it I've included quite a bit of source
this time round. First up theres the source to my Invaders clone
which appeared on ACC 28 or so. Then theres my Data Compression bits and 
pieces. After using powerpacker etc I decided to have a go at writing my
own compression utilities, mainly so I could use it in games so
more data could be squashed on each disk. For more info see the Doc.
There's also a small routine that flips graphic data, so you only have 
to store data with your characters facing one direction. See the doc
and demo for more information.

	Has anyone got their hands on an A1200 (or an A4000!!). If so
you lucky git. I thought about getting one when my A500 was dead just
before Xmas, but couldnt really afford it. 

	Hope you like the bits and pieces of source

				Paul. 

Before I go, I've got a coding problem that I hope someone can help 
me with. This is highlighted in my example code where I have a 
program that loads some data from the disk (ie graphics data).
In my example code I can put the executable file anywhere but I have
to define the path of any data I load in actually in the source.This 
presents a problem cos I have to keep the data files in the same place
What I want to be able to do is have the program and all its data
files in their own directory, and be able to run the program where-
ever I move the directory (and contents) ie on Hard disk, Ram disk 
or whatever. This is probably dead simple but I've still not got any
decent system documentation!!




