----------------------------------------------------------------------
                         D E M O L I T I O N      I I

                          JOENSUU, 22-24 Nov 1996

Disclaimer   : All those typos in bad english aren't made on purpose.
               Still, I'm using english in this jolly text because it
               seems to be standard in scene. I'm 100% sure that
               foreigners won't come anyway but here we go.

Date & Place : Demolition will be again held in the Joensuun Kauppaoppilaitos.
               It is the same place than last time, it can hold about 250
               people with some computer and hifi equipment. Date will be
               friday 22-11-96 and doors will open at 2000.

Entrance fee : 100 Fim, girls and foreigners free.

Boozing      : Yes, we know, boozing is the (best?) part of the parties but
               we surely can't allow as free politics as last time. We won't
               confiscate your booze unless you drink it inside. We know
               that all of you don't have a car so you can have your booze
               fi. in your bag. Note! All confiscated booze will be most
               likely consumed by organizers! Let's just hope for perfect
               weather for having fun.

               Duncan/Damones promised to take care of boozing organization.
               Don't know what it means but I guess that at least guided
               bar tour.

               Be sure that you will be thrown out if we will catch
               you smoking inside.

Projector    : Video projector will be the same than last time. Amiga will
               be connected via tv-modulator and PC will use direct RGB
               input. Do note that you shouldn't use tricky screen modes
               since projector doesn't show 50hz modes (pc case of course).
               If you want to use it make it optional. You may test your
               product before competition. Also PA will be most likely the
               same as last time.

Competitions : Again, we will have combined compos with Amiga and PC. Those
               will be naturally demo, intro, music and graphics one. There
               will be also fast compos and those are combined as well.

Preliminary
schedule     : Pe      2300    music and graphics deadline
                       0100    graphics competition
                       0130    music competition

               La      2000    demo and intro deadline
                       0000    intro competition
                       0100    demo competition

               Su      0400    voting deadline
                       0600    results and reruns.

               Final schedule with much more events you will see
               at the party place.

Machines     : Amiga will be the best we can get. Most likely it
               will be 060/50 but we can guarantee at least 040/40.
               Make your product in a manner that it works on any
               processor without special tricks.

               PC will be Pentium 120Mhz, Matrox Millenium and
               1MB Gus standard. We will use MS-DOS 7.0 (Win95 dos
               prompt only) for showing demos and intros. We will show
               demos with clean boot, which in this case means himem.sys
               and Scitech Display Doctor so it should be safe to use
               svga resolutions and colors.

               I guess that all coders know this already but do not
               assume that having scitech installed means that you
               have possibility use 24bit modes. Some cards have
               their truecolor mode done with 32bits, like Matrox
               Millenium. More precisely, don't assume any modes,
               check them before using.

               If you use svga graphics we strongly recommend you
               to test your production before compo in compo machine.

Democompo    : These are the general rules for demo competition.

               - Maximum file size is four megabytes. Demo may be also
                 pure animation file with sound but I guess you can't
                 do much in four megabytes.

               - If demo is just an animation it has to be in
                 executable form.

               - Demo must work with eight megabytes of ram
                 but it may take advantage of more memory.

               - It must not write anything to harddisk nor any other
                 media.

               - PC demos must work also without soundcard.

               - Please note projector limits mentioned before.
                 PC max resulution is 640x480 and Amiga max resulution
                 is 640x512.

Introcompo   : These are the general rules for intro competition.

               - Same rules as in demo competition but maximum file size
                 for compo version is 80 kilobytes.

               - Release version can be larger and it must work without
                 sound.

Graphics     : Maximum resolution will be 640x512 with 256 colors.
               Amiga pictures will be shown with Amiga and PC pictures
               will be shown with Compushow unless you want to use other
               viewer. Please bring also the viewer with you.

Music        : Maximum of 32 channels are accepted. File size maximum is
               one megabyte (1048576 bytes). All contributions must be
               delivered on PC formatted disk and we will play modules with
               Cubic player. If you aren't satisfied with Cubic Players sound
               we also have the newest versions of FT2 and Capamod. Feel
               free to bring your own player. ST3 seems to have some
               problems in a machine we are going to use as a compo
               machine.

Jury         : There will be a different juries for all the competitions.
               All juries compose of two organizers and three randomly
               chosen Demolition visitors.

               Naturally jury can disqualify any product if it is
               racistic, shitty, previously released or violating any
               copyrights. In music competition it is Jurys
               opininion. Everyone can't be happy or do you wan't to
               listen all those tunes? I don't think so.

               Organizers will decide whether they call juries up.
               Jury will be called at least in music competition.

Prizes       : Well, Imagine situation if we had 10000 fim for
               prizes. I just won't say you any figures since
               it isn't sure if there will be but .. it's up to
               you! All the money left over after expenses will be
               given as prices. Organizers aren't going to be paid.

                          MUSIC   GFX    INTRO   DEMO
                         ----------------------------
                      1.   9%      9%     12%     20%
                      2.   6%      6%      8%     13%
                      3.   3%      3%      4%      7%
                         ----------------------------
                          18%     18%     24%     40%

               !! NOTE, ALL THE DAMAGES CAUSED FOR THE PLACE WILL !!
               !! REDUCE THE AMOUNT OF MONEY WE WILL PAY AS PRIZES !!

               !! PRIZES ARE PAID AFTERWARDS ANYWAY !!

Spreading    : All the productions will be released at the party place.
               All the products will be uploaded to Manowar, Triplex BBS
               and to somewhere in internet. Do note that we can't
               guarantee that productions will be available next day.

Other        : We will show some nice movies and old demonstrations
               on big screen. If you have any movies you would like
               to see in big screen bring it with you. We have time
               for from two to four movies.

Cafe         : Unlike last time there will be at least a little
               cafe selling coffee, lemonade and maybe even something
               to eat :)

How to find  : If you come by bus or train just watch the map included
               in invitation intro package. There is also maps in
               stations and stations aren't that far away from
               Kauppaoppilaitos unless you have much equipment. Then
               I would recommend you to take a taxi, it won't cost much.
               Don't walk over the river if you want to party place from
               stations.

               If you come by car it is quite easy to find it even
               without map. If you come from north to Joensuu (Kuopio,
               Jyväskylä, Kajaani) then just follow signs for Lappeenranta.
               When you drive over a river (rather large, can't miss it)
               just wait for next traffic lights and turn to right.
               Then just drive a little bit more and follow the signs
               of kauppaoppilaitos.

               If you come from south to Joensuu (Anything via Lappeenranta)
               just turn left in the first lights in Joensuu and then
               follow the signs of kauppaoppilaitos.

Contact info : If you want to contact Demolition organizers you should mail
               to following addressess.

               mpiirone@lut.fi (Zen-Ti-Nel / NV)
               jhheinon@niksula.hut.fi (Wihannes / NV)

               You can call to Manowar BBS, dial to 013-745300 or
               013-745301.

               Also, you can call with voice. Dial to 040-5849020 / Mikko
               or 013-745123 / Make.
                                                                                    

