
Polybios 1.3
============

Polybios is a plugin for Hollywood that allows you to easily create PDF
documents from Hollywood scripts. On top of that, Polybios can also open
existing PDF documents and convert their pages into Hollywood brushes. In
fact, when converting PDF pages into Hollywood brushes, Polybios will create
vector brushes for you which can be scaled, rotated and transformed without
any losses in quality (unless bitmap graphics are embedded inside the PDF
document of course).

Polybios comes with over 200 functions for creating PDF documents of all
sorts. It supports graphics primitives, text in different encodings
including Unicode, embedding fonts as well as images and Hollywood brushes
inside PDF documents. On top of that Polybios supports the creation of
password-protected PDF documents, encrypted PDF documents, compression, file
attachments, annotations, extended graphics states, info dictionaries, RGB,
CMYK and gray color spaces, different viewing modes, transition effects,
links, and permission flags for PDF documents. Transformation of PDF objects
is fully supported too. Finally, Polybios can also create PDF documents with
an easy-to-navigate outline that can be used as a table of contents as well.

Polybios also has support for extracting text from PDF pages, getting all
bookmarks in a document, handling links on PDF pages, and it is also possible
to search pages. Furthermore, Polybios allows you to query the position of text
on PDF pages, making it possible to implement text marking functionality, for
instance.

Polybios comes with extensive documentation in various formats like PDF (of
course), HTML, AmigaGuide, and CHM that contains detailed descriptions about
all functions and methods offered by the plugin. On top of that, over 25
example scripts are included in the distribution archive to get you started
really quickly.

All of this makes Polybios the ultimate PDF tool for Hollywood that contains
everything to empower you to make history in PDF!
--
Released on 06-Dec-2020 by Andreas Falkenhahn <andreas@airsoftsoftwair.de>
=Visit http://www.hollywood-mal.com/ for more information on Hollywood=
