OrionTool - A tool to setup, cleanup, and manipulate the list
   of resource allocations by programs using Orion.
   This is a shell only tool.

Usage Template:
   OrionTool L=List/S,Q=Quit/S,C=Clean/S,V=Verbose/S,NV=NoVerbose/S,
      I=Interactive/S,NI=Interactive/S,T=Trash/S,NT=NoTrash/S,File/K

Without any arguments, it simply sets up the resource tracking
structures.  If it's already been setup, it won't do anything.

List: Causes the list of all currently tracked resources to be dumped
to the shell.  Shows task name, size of allocation, and its address.
It also shows the line number and source file name where the allocation
was made.
** The sizes listed for bitmaps may not exactly match the values passed
** to AllocBitMap() due to alignment restrictions.

Quit: Removes the resource tracking structures, and frees all memory
associated with the tracking.  Memory being tracked is *NOT* freed.

Clean: Frees all resources being tracked and removes the resource
tracking from the system.  Be very careful with this.  Only use this
if you are tracking a single task and it either has finished execution
or it has hung.  Otherwise bad things could happen.

Verbose/NoVerbose:Every allocation and free function is logged.  All parameters
and return values are shown.  This is a flag.  You can set it when
you setup the tracking, or turn it on after the tracking is already
setup.  NoVerbose turns off the tracking.   Default:NoVerbose

Interactive/NoInteractive:When this flags is set, you are prompted when
you free something you didn't allocate or free a different size than you
allocated.  When you free something that isn't in the track list, your
options are:Free Anyway, or Ignore.  Selecting 'Free' frees the allocation,
'Ignore' leaves it alone.
When you free a different size the options are:Free Anyway,Free Original,
Ignore.  'Free Anyway' and 'Ignore' are the same as the other option.
'Free Original' ignores the arguement you supplied and frees what Orion
thinks you allocated.   Default:Interactive

Trash:Memory allocations(AllocVec,AllocMem,malloc,AllocPooled) are filled
with garbage after being freed.
After being allocated memory is filled with garbage(AllocVec,AllocMem,
malloc).  With AllocVec and AllocMem, this won't be done if the
MEMF_CLEAR flag is set.
Note:This can slow your program down significantly.
Default:NoTrash

File: This is the name of the file to be used for error messages when
allocating/freeing resources.  Only specify this when setting up the
tracking resources.  If not specified, the default is a CON: window.
You can specify any valid DOS path. (NULL:,SER:, CON:, RAD:error.log)
Note:If you don't setup the system with this tool, the first program
to allocate a resource will set it up with CON: as the default.

All tracking is done in a very clean way.  No system routines are patched
and only programs that are Orion-aware are tracked.

Eventually this program will be replaced by one with a proper GUI.
Individual allocations will be viewable, editable, and freeable.
Freeing resources by Task name will also be possible.

Because of this I haven't spent a lot of time making this utility
amazingly brilliant.  It's good enough for now.
