
Diese Texte stammen aus der UseNet-Newsgroup "comp/sys/amiga/announce".
Die "cut"s markieren jeweils das Ende/den Anfang eines Textes.

[----cut----]

VISCORP USA AND ESCOM AG ANNOUNCE LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING FOR ACQUISITION
OF AMIGA TECHNOLOGIES BY VISCORP

Heppenheim, Germany and Chicago, IL, April 12, 1996 -- ESCOM AG, a German
computer manufacturer and reseller and Visual Information Services Corp.
(Nasdaq: VICP, Bulletin Board), a developer of interactive TV (ITV)
set-top-boxes to enhance television use and viewing by providing Internet
access and electronic communications function, today jointly announced that
a binding letter of understanding has been signed between the companies.

The letter states that Chicago-based VIScorp would acquire Amiga
Technologies, including the intellectual properties of the former Commodore
Business Machines, excepted Commodore trademarks. The transaction value is
approximately US $40 million. Terms were not disclosed, and the pending
acquisition would be subject to approval by both companies' boards of
directors.

"This intended acquisition is part of VIScorp's strategy to build market
leadership in the fast-growing field of ITV", said William Buck, Chief
Executive Officer. "As a result, we would own Amiga intellectual
properties, including several that are currently used in our set top-box,
Electronic Device (ED(). We would also have control over the supplied chip
sets used in ED as well as Amiga inventories and access to the company's
current sales and distribution channels."

Commenting the proposed acquisition, Helmut Jost, chief executive of ESCOM
AG, said: "VIScorp has a clear vision of the Amiga technology potential for
ITV applications. We are eager to support and work together over the term
of the letter of understanding to ensure a smooth transition between the
two companies. VIScorp anticipates the support of ongoing European sales of
popular models such as the A4000T and the A1200 as well as the current
developments and future releases of Amiga Technologies."

Petro Tyschtschenko, president of Amiga Technologies stated "I am looking
forward to being able to take advantage of the research and development
support potential that an Amiga-related company like VIScorp can provide."

Commenting that the primary objective of the proposed acquisition is to
give VIScorp full access to the Amiga technology to support development of
its ITV device, Mr. Buck noted: "Our intention is to rapidly develop and
begin manufacturing TV set-top interactive boxes -- products that give home
users capabilities such as telephone reception and dial up capabilities,
facsimile, video games, pay-per-view options, electronic mail, and access
to on-line services, including the Internet."

Product names mentioned herein may be trademarks and/or registered
trademarks of their respective companies.


Contact :
Gilles Bourdin
Amiga Technologies
Berliner Ring 89
D-64625 Bensheim

Tel +49 6252 709 195
Fax +49 6252 709 520
email: gbo@amiga.de
HTTP://www.amiga.de


Regards,
Gilles Bourdin
--
Gilles Bourdin / Amiga Technologies GmbH
Public Relations
Email to: gbo@amiga.de  URL: HTTP://www.amiga.de

--
MAIL comp.sys.amiga.announce announcements to announce@cs.ucdavis.edu.
Mailing list: announce-request@cs.ucdavis.edu; Moderator: zerkle@cs.ucdavis.edu
Servers: http://seclab.cs.ucdavis.edu/~zerkle/announce, announce@cs.ucdavis.edu

[----cut----]

Keynote from Petro Tyschtschenko, April 13 1996
Press conference at World of Amiga in London

Ladies and Gentlemen,


First of all, I'd like to thank you for being here at this first World of
Amiga show in the UK this year.

As you might most certainly have heard already, our company, Amiga
Technologies GmbH is about to be sold by ESCOM to VIScorp. The process,
engaged by the signature of a binding letter of understanding between
ESCOM, VIScorp and Amiga has been announced on Thursday this week.

I will use this opportunity to introduce you Mr. William Buck, president
and CEO of VIScorp. I'm quite sure that Bill will say a few words
afterwards.

A lot of questions arise. Why is this happening ? Who is VIScorp ? What
does this mean for Amiga ?

In 1995, when ESCOM took over the intellectual property of the former
Commodore, ESCOM was in a financially good shape. The year 1994 had been
excellent and the corporate policy was set to expansion. A multimedia
company was formed. The decisions taken at this time were good and ESCOM
saved the Amiga computer from its bad destiny.

Amiga Technologies was founded and Amiga computers were brought back to a
demanding market. Strategic decisions were taken to ensure the venue of new
technology based models as soon as possible. We have achieved all this and
we are proud of that performance.

Of course, all these projects and plans are to be financed. it was clear
from the beginning that it would take some time for a break-even point to
be reached. The company created in may 1995 only could begin with sales in
mid-September. We have then sold 40 thousand A1200 , 13 thousand monitors
and 2000 A4000T machines worldwide until now, which is a satisfying
result.

As you might be aware of, ESCOM is currently facing a quite difficult
financial situation. A bad christmas season and inventory write offs were
the main reasons for this. This situation of course is also directly
affecting Amiga Technologies. The fact is that ESCOM currently does not
have the financial resources needed to support the still ongoing costs of
our operation, especially advertising and research & development.

To continue a successfull Amiga business, a solution to this situation has
to be found. I checked a lot of possibilities, I looked into a lot of
alternatives. Ladies and Gentlemen, I personnaly think that VIScorp is one
of the best solutions. It is a very interesting opportunity for our
future.

Last year, in december, a license agreement was signed between Amiga
Technologies and VIScorp, for the making of the Amiga set-top box. This
product is network oriented and needs a system like the Amiga with its
video abilities and tight operating system. The relationship between Amiga
Technologies and VIScorp built up from this time on became closer and
closer.

VIScorp is a research & development oriented company. These research
efforts are based on the Amiga technology for use in set top boxes. Former
Commodore engineers work for VIScorp, which will of course be an
appreciable synergy for the development of Amiga in general.

The set-top box market is huge and will be a fantastic engine for our
activities.

As I told our staff yesterday, this procedure is not affecting our daily
business and ongoing projects, as well as my position as the president of
the company. We want the migration to be made as smooth and transparent as
possible, for our company and also for our business partners and the Amiga
community.

I am confident that this is a good chance for us to be successful in the
future.

When this deal will be finalised, the Amiga technology will return to an
american company, which understands our technology and its manufacturing.

Thank you very much.

Regards,
Gilles Bourdin
--
Gilles Bourdin / Amiga Technologies GmbH
Public Relations
Email to: gbo@amiga.de  URL: HTTP://www.amiga.de

--
MAIL comp.sys.amiga.announce announcements to announce@cs.ucdavis.edu.
Mailing list: announce-request@cs.ucdavis.edu; Moderator: zerkle@cs.ucdavis.edu
Servers: http://seclab.cs.ucdavis.edu/~zerkle/announce, announce@cs.ucdavis.edu

[----cut----]

Official message from Viscorp

Permission Granted to Distribute without Alteration

VISCORP and AMIGA: The Phoenix Strategy

Much has been said and written about the recent announcement of the
signing of a letter of understanding between VIScorp and Escom AG
Germany. In addition, VIScorp has received hundreds of telephone,
fax and Email communications requesting information as to the status
of the deal and our plans for the Amiga. We are providing this posting
to inform those interested in the knowing about the current arrangements --
and will provide additional information as the they develop.

1. VIScorp is currently conducting a thorough due diligence assessment of
   Escom's Amiga holdings. This process is painstaking and extremely time
   consuming; however, without full disclosure, no satisfactory deal can be
   concluded.

   Due to the letter of understanding, VIScorp is restricted from releasing
   information relating to the negotiations until they are completed. Until
   such time, Amiga remains the asset of Amiga Technologies/Escom and all
   inquires relating to current Amiga operations should be directed to Amiga
   Technologies/Escom.

2. VIScorp currently holds a license to the Amiga OS and chip sets and is
   developing a family of TV-based products that utilize the Amiga's unique
   functionalities.

3. Many of VIScorp's senior management have previously worked for Commodore
   and have a thorough knowledge of the Amiga.

   Our intent to purchase the Amiga comes out of (i) an appreciation of the
   core technology and its importance to VIScorp's long-term business
   development and (ii) a belief that the Amiga can -- like the Phoenix --
   rise from the ashes and become a profitable technology for the future.

Over the coming days and weeks we anticipate to see a flood a mis-statements
in the press, on the Net and via voice communications -- some will be made
out of ignorance, others out of malice. We will do our best to keep the Amiga 
community regularly informed. We have received hundreds of messages and 
anticipate many more to be received until final resolution of formal 
negotiations is completed. While we are making every effort to do so, 
please excuse us if we do not respond to your individual message.

David Rosen
Vice President, Business Development
April 19, 1996


Regards,
Gilles Bourdin
--
Gilles Bourdin / Amiga Technologies GmbH
Public Relations
Email to: gbo@amiga.de  URL: HTTP://www.amiga.de FTP: lisa.amiga.de

--
MAIL comp.sys.amiga.announce announcements to announce@cs.ucdavis.edu.
Mailing list: announce-request@cs.ucdavis.edu; Moderator: zerkle@cs.ucdavis.edu
Servers: http://seclab.cs.ucdavis.edu/~zerkle/announce, announce@cs.ucdavis.edu

[----cut----]

Message to Amiga developers from VIScorp:

Recently, a number of Amiga-developers have contacted VIScorp to make
proposals about the future of Amiga.

VIScorp is ready to listen to all suggestions coming from the Amiga
developer community.

In France, an Amiga developer asked if VIScorp would like him to
officially represent the company to the French developer community
in order to centralize their ideas and proposals.

We found this to be an excellent idea for supporting the Amiga and would
actually like to extend this system to all countries where Amiga developers
are active, so that there are VIScorp representatives in each country.

If you would like to represent VIScorp in your country, feel free to
contact David Rosen (drosen@vistv.com), VP, Business Development or Raquel
Velasco (raquel@vistv.com), Director of Sales and Marketing Europe at
following Email address: raquel@vistv.com.


Regards,
Bill Buck
CEO, VIScorp


--
Gilles Bourdin / Amiga Technologies GmbH
Public Relations
Email to: gbo@amiga.de  URL: HTTP://www.amiga.de FTP: lisa.amiga.de

--
MAIL comp.sys.amiga.announce announcements to announce@cs.ucdavis.edu.
Mailing list: announce-request@cs.ucdavis.edu; Moderator: zerkle@cs.ucdavis.edu
Servers: http://seclab.cs.ucdavis.edu/~zerkle/announce, announce@cs.ucdavis.edu
