From: m_smart@usa.net (Commander Frantic)

EQUIPMENT::WEAPONS

EQUIPMENT::WEAPONS::LASERS

- Lasers that fire like in Arc Elite and Amiga Elite. A laser bolt
  should take about 2 seconds to reach target at maximum range, about
  0.5 seconds in close combat. In this way an alert pilot should be able
  to dodge incoming fire when they hear it, 
 
  - perhaps a small external camera box on screen to see your ship in
    relation to incoming fire. Also attacking would be closer to a combat
    feel as you would shoot ahead of a moving ship rather than just sitting
    still and aiming the mouse right on centre. 

  - The shots should not follow your crosshairs (as you are turning away)
    after firing, they should continue on their original firing path. 

  - ability to set strength of shots, from
    strong spaced out shots to light frequent fire.

- Collisions and missile hits made your get knocked back. 
  Would be nice of laser fire did this too and made the ship rock a bit.

EQUIPMENT::WEAPONS::MISSILES

- Missiles can be a real hassle early in the game, they should require
  a direct hit. In this way your little fighter would have at least a
  chance of dodging missiles. 
 
- Should be able to get an ECM that kills all homing missiles and
  missiles should be easier to shoot like in Elite. 
  
- Should have rockets that fly in a straight line and are immune
  to all ECM. They explode on closest approach to target causing splash
  damage or on direct hit causing full damage. 
  
- Nuclear missiles should be rockets.

CHARACTERS

- Enemy ships with improved (and varied) combat skills. A hired
  assassin should be pretty good on average. 
 
COMBAT

- Pirates should attack in formations and rebuild their formations. 

- Larger ships should use their turret weapons against you and your crew
  should man your turrets.

GROUPS

- Ability to join and/or build fleets of ships and give orders to you
  drone ships. 
  
BASES

- Ability to buy land to set up bases. 

- Your base should allow you to store cargo, equipment and ships. 
- Planet based bases in owned systems cost money; 
- hidden bases on asteroids are free. 
- Buying a Long Range Cruiser should enable you to have docking ports for fighters.

SPACE

- When you kill a ship you should be able to salvage it for parts, if
  you have the right equipment and large enough ship to haul it away in.


EQUIPMENT::ANTIWEAPONS

- Shields should have 2 levels. Amount of shields/strength% and
  efficiency%. Taking shield damage should slightly reduce a percentage
  efficiency of recharge. In this way a fighter could eventually wear
  down a large ship to the point where it could no longer recharge it's
  shields. It would require repair to shield generators to bring
  efficiency back to 100%. The advantage of this would be that a Long
  Range Cruiser with 1000 shields would not be exactly invincible, but
  that any ship could kill it given enough time and skill. Even at 1%
  efficiency, though, you would still be able to bring your shields up
  to full, albeit very slowly. Depleting shields to 0% should reduce
  their efficiency by 10%.

GROUPS

- Branching storyline. There should be functionality that changes the
  course of the game depending on decisions that you make. E.g., you
  should be able to start war between 2 powers (given the opportunity)
  that will set up missions that will only occur if that course is
  chosen.

BASES

- Ability to destroy a space station. This would stay destroyed until a
  new one is built. In a war situation you should be able to take over a
  system by jumping in with a fleet and annihilating all stations and
  military sites. You would get a reward for this and a stack of points
  towards your next promotion. I used to jump to Achnear and kill all
  the ships, police, cruisers and bulk carriers at the various bases and
  stations to up my elite rating, then jump out. Stations should be
  really tough to destroy based on their size. Orbital cities would
  require a stack of concentrated fire to bring their shields down,
  perhaps even nuclear rockets designed for this purpose. 
  
- In the same way, you would be called in to help stop an invasion by
  a fleet of enemy ships in a nearby system. Game-play would be extended
  by having a continued mission to completely wipe out the enemy from
  the face of the galaxy.

BASES

- Space stations. Separate launching docks for police, preferable on
  separate sides of the station so you cant kill them all before they
  launch. 
  
COMBAT

- They should retreat so as to return in force and in formation.
  Also, space stations should have fixed defence turrets.

GROUPS

- Completion of some missions should give you contacts for trading
  goods, special equipment etc. A high ranking in a military force
  should give you access to special equipment based on your rank.

GROUPS

- A choice of just freelancing for military forces, or actually joining
  them with time off for other pursuits. Also to join police forces,
  pirate gangs, exploratory fleets etc.

CHARACTERS

- More status detail. Need to have a bounty on your head for mischief
  per police force. Bounty hunters chasing you for this too. Your elite
  rating should display in points as well as rating, as with military
  points etc. You should get good elite points for killing an elite
  rated pirate. You should get good military points for special missions
  (discouraging delivery runs which can be done in bulk and there fore
  up your rating faster than bombing runs). Need a mission to
  assassinate the Emperor/President (or anyone surrounded by an
  entourage).

CHARACTERS

- Gaining a reputation. Repeatedly attacking police forces in the
  empire (for example), destroying shipping, assassinating their
  officials etc. would eventually get you to a point where paying a fine
  will not get you back in the good books and you will permanently be a
  fugitive with a bounty on your head for that police force. There
  should be good grace missions that would prevent you from getting to
  this point.

CHARACTERS, GROUPS

- AI commanders in the single player game. These would be not only be
  randomly generated upon starting a new game, but would stay around in
  the game until they get killed. You could make friends or enemies with
  these commanders and join them in missions or ask them to join you in
  missions and your fleet. You would meet these commanders in flight
  occasionally amongst the other ships running around, and be able to
  carry out communications and negotiations.

EQUIPMENT

- Fleets hyper spacing. First of all on large ships, you should be able
  to install multiple drives to increase range. Secondly, in a fleet the
  total range would be calculated for the entire fleet. This would be a
  weighted average so that a Falcon with a class1M would only add a
  little extra range to a Panther partner. The formula would contain the
  values of total fleet mass and total fleet engine power in use. This
  would work for 2 ships (i.e. Cobra and an Asp) as well as a whole
  fleet of assorted ships. In this way, 30 Cobra's with class3M drives
  would not be held to the maximum range of the single Explorer tagging
  along. However they but would still have to keep pace with it on
  interplanetary travel.

- Separate interplanetary drives for upgrade, so you could increase the
  manoeuvrability on a ship for the right price.

EQUIPMENT

- Differing quality equipment. E.g., cheap crap shields from Lave, but
  really good ones from Alioth with the same 4t space, but better
  resistance. Also a FFE autopilot for sale (he he), and a top-notch
  baby that actually does a halfway turnaround to make full use of rear
  thrust power. Kill the cheat where you just hold enter down full until
  0.8 au or so and hit autopilot and magically come to a halt at the
  station. A 1-mw beam laser is still 1-mw, but some versions would me a
  little more compact. Etc.

EQUIPMENT

- Robot lifters for ships too large to dock/capable of carrying
  fighters. These would be used to scoop up goods in space and to
  load/unload goods you buy from a station. Some stations should have
  this as a service (paid maybe?). For large transactions, you larger
  fleet ships could be ordered to assist with the loading/unloading to
  save time. In battle you could shoot these off after cargo before is
  gets lost, thereby collecting all the cargo from a battle.

GROUPS

- Some criminal acts that will get you in trouble with 2 or more/all
  police forces at once. Things such as deliberately attacking civilian
  targets, such as cities.

SERVICES

- Customising colours on ships and registering customised ID's. This
  should cost credits.

CHARACTERS

- To reach Elite, after accumulating the necessary kills, you should
  have to complete an initiation mission or series of missions to gain
  the title. When you reach Elite you should get new missions and/or
  invitations to join various Elite Forces and military wings.

PHYSICS SIMULATION

- Keep with the realistic physics and control methods. Improvements to
  graphics on planets would be cool. I read on Frontier Developments web
  page that combat will feel more like Elite than Frontier. This would
  be a step backwards. The combat feel of FE2/FFE is not as adventurous
  as Elite, but the only versions of Elite that really took on more than
  an aim and fire feel were Arc Elite and Amiga Elite where you fires
  laser bolts.

EXTERNAL TOOL ?

- Ability to record replays. You could later convert these to mpegs.

???

- Background star fields based on your actual position in space. As it
  would be way too complex to reference every start in relation to
  current position, only some systems would have a correct star field
  which would be hard coded in. Other systems would receive a random
  star field based on the general density of systems in the area. The
  galaxy would be broken into regions of density and all systems in each
  group would receive the same number of stars to generate in the sky,
  and also the average magnitude. To cut it short, if you are on the
  galactic rim, you would have a very sparse star field, and in the
  galactic core you would have a very confusing mess (which your screen
  would filter down in magnitude but not quantity).

???

- Life support supplies like oxygen, food etc. This would be mostly an
  automated procedure, but you would be able to increase your supply in
  preparation for a long trip. Carrying slaves and animals would use up
  oxygen.

ENCOUNTERS

- When being attacked by pirates, dumping cargo should distract their
  attention. Visa versa for when you attack a trader. This was one of
  the original tactics for Elite that rarely was implemented.

PHYSICS SIMULATION

- Some effect of atmosphere on manoeuvring ability. Possibly
  manoeuvring wings that could be deployed in the atmosphere at low
  enough speeds. Say a cobra is entering the atmosphere at high speed
  at, say, 45 degrees. Lifting the nose would cause a slight change in
  direction over time, compared to a saker whose direction would be
  affected a lot more by the change. Atmosphere would cause a braking
  effect also, turning a saker 90 degrees from forward would increase
  the surface area working against atmosphere and increase braking. This
  affects the ship along with gravity and thrust (which are the more
  powerful). Reusable (or not) parachutes to make further use of
  atmosphere for braking. This would be useful in a situation where you
  are going straight down and thrusting in the opposite direction won't
  quite save you.

ACTION CONTROL

- Take up the Asimov restrictions of hyperspace jumps where you must be
  good distance way from a point of gravity to make a jump safe. About
  the distance from a planet where your autopilot switches off and says
  "Arrived in vicinity of target" should be absolutely safe if the
  planet is the nearest relative gravatic point. Jumping earlier would
  be always possible (even right after take off), but not very safe
  depending on closeness to planet. The ship would have an indicator
  showing your safety percentage to hyperspace and telling you object
  you need to get away from to reach a safe jump point. The better
  quality autopilots would have a function to take you to the nearest
  safe jump point.

ACTION CONTROL

- Hyper spacing at low altitudes of an inhabited planet would be
  illegal. Also illegal to jump to close to a space station. An
  indicator showing traffic control clearance to jump.

ACTION CONTROL

- Some options to prevent you accidentally doing something illegal. You
  would be able to set a weapons lockout that would cut in when you are
  in the safe zone of a station. Options would include Always Lock (you
  would have an override button for emergencies), Unlock if Under Attack
  (If you are attacked, traffic control would not fine you for defending
  yourself), Never Lock. You could set these options for each political
  force. Lock out for accidentally launching without clearance,
  accidentally hyper spacing in proximity to population centre, illegal
  mining etc.

???

- Some form of encouragement to play the game without saving and
  loading all the time. Sort of like Diablo II.

???

- Some types of communication would require text input. Still looking
  back, King's Quest I was much more fun than King's Quest V (Not to
  mention Zork). Talking to a character in the game, it would be good if
  you would miss stuff unless you knew what you were after. On the other
  hand by really thinking about what someone says you may find the right
  question to find out something really special. This could also have
  application in weeding out cops from bulletin boards before you trade.

USER INTERFACE

- Ability to filter stuff in mission lists and bulletin boards. Would
  be nice to go to military and in one go select and accept all delivery
  missions to system X after date Y. Also to show a list of
  assassination contracts on the BBS.

TRADING SYSTEM

- Diminishing effect of price differences as you wear out a trade
  route. Trading the same goods several times in large quantity would
  reduce demand and price.

CHARACTERS

- Would like to be able to release slaves. If you had the money, you
  could buy them each a flight-training course, a cheap ship and a few
  credits then leave them to themselves. A percentage of these would
  become AI characters in the game and would always be your allies. Vice
  versa, some slaves you trade in would eventually gain freedom (a very
  small percentage) and hold a grudge against you forever.

CHARACTERS

- Slaves could come in pressurised containers that have limited life
  support. You would still need cargo bay life support systems and
  oxygen food etc, but when a ship carrying slaves is destroyed, some of
  the slave containers could survive for a while in space with the
  supplies they were using at the time. This way you could pick up
  slaves and sell or free them for reputation points. Cargo
  differentiation between normal slaves, and pirates escape capsules.

CHARACTERS

- When collecting pirates escape capsules, you hand them over to the
  authorities for imprisonment or sell them as slaves. Likewise with
  narcotics etc, you would get a small reward (much less than sell
  value) for handing over illegal goods that you collect in space. You
  would only get a Smuggling Illegal Goods record if you try to hide
  them from the police. Request when docking with illegal goods "Hand
  goods over to the authorities or try to smuggle them in?".

COMBAT         : Formations
                 Wingmen
                 
EQUIPMENT      : What you can do in while not docked
                 Weapons
                 Antiweapons
                 Scooping items
                 Tractor beams

CHARACTERS     : Status information
                 What others think about you

SHIP           : Ship type
                 Equipment
                 Who controls

FLEET          : Collection of ships

BASE           : Provides storage for your stuff

GROUPS         : 

BUSINESS       : Fuel
                 Maintainance, repairs
                 Storage
                 Trade goods
                 Trade equipment (different kinds of)
                 Alter equipment (some illegal)
                 Navigation
                 Transport

TRADING SYSTEM :

ACTION CONTROL : What are results of actions; groups observe
                 Local regulations
                 Groups regulations

MISSIONS       :
                
IMAGE :