How easy can programming in SAS C or C++ be using CED?  Too easy, if you use
theese five files!  I have CED 3.0, so I am not sure what the minimal version
of CED you need to use these scripts.  You also need SAS/C version 6.00+.

There should be 6 files included in this archive:

YAS2C.txt		- This text file
Rexx/Compile.ced	- ARexx script to compile current file
Rexx/Make.ced		- ARexx script to make current file's directory
Rexx/NextError.ced	- ARexx script to step through all the errors
S/Compile.ced		- AmigaDOS script to use sc with ARexx
S/Make.ced		- AmigaDOS script to use smake with ARexx

To compile, load a file to compile or clear a fold to start fresh.  When
you feel you want to test your program against gramatical errors, press the
fkey assigned to "Compile".  This will compile the file in the current
view, report the first error, if any, and will bring you to the specific
file and line that the error occured in.  A prompt will pop up with the
kind of error it was and the error message.  Fix the error (or as much as
you can) and press the fkey assigned to "NextError".  If modified, this
will save the file and also close it if it was not originally open.  This
is continued untill the prompt "No more errors found" is reached.  Now
compile the file again with the fkey assigned to "Compile", and continue
the process if more errors occur.

To make, load a file contained in the directory you with to use smake.  The
rest of the process is the same as compiling.

To install these scripts:

	1)	Copy everything in "YAS2C/Rexx" to your ARexx directory

	2)	Copy everything in "YAS2C/S" to your S: directory.

	3)	Your SASOPTIONS files need the string ERRORREXX and
		ENVARC:SC/SCMSG should contain REXXONLY and HIDDEN if you do not
		want to see the list of errors.

	4)	Select	Special
			Dos/ARexx interface
			Install Dos/ARexx command...

		from CED.  Enter the function key number you want to assign to
		compile in the first prompt.  Enter "Compile" in the second.

		Enter the function key number you want to assign to step through
		errors in the first prompt.  Enter "NextError" in the second.

	5)	If you wish to save these commands, select
		"Save Dos/ARexx commands..." in the same menu, and save the file
		as "RexxCommands" in your ARexx directory.

Note: This archive is placed into the public domain, and the author is
not liable for any faults created by using these scripts.

						Mike
						cman@netcom.com
