IT'S ONLY ROCK'N"ROLL...
[04b]
[22m][42m][CENTER]it's only rock'N'roll...
[25m][44m]    ...but they like it. Dodging comedians and critics, balancing beats and
 haircuts,  PRODIGY  crunk up their electronic rage against the machine.
 Jeff Salamon discovers what makes a band start fires.

        There  were  few  surprises  amid  the  parade  of  familiar  faces  and
 navels    passing    through    Prodigy's   after-show  party  at  Spy  bar  in
 Manhattan.    Helena    Christensen?    Yes.    Cameron  Diaz?  Affirmative.
 Bono?  Of  course.  Chris Rock and Sean "Puffy" Combs? Why not? Jerry
 Seinfeld? Without a dou-um, excuse me?

    "I mean, Seinfeld?" asks Liam Howlett the next evening. "Why was he
 there?"    Howlett,  26,  Prodigy's  leader,  is  sitting  in  a  hotel  room  in
 Atlanta's  Ritz-Carlton,  looking  so  tense  that  his  bleached-blond hair
 and  proudly  dark  roots  might  turn gray at any moment. Atlanta is the
 butt-end  of  the  group's  ten-day,  eight-city  whirlwind  tour  of North
 America,  and  sound  check  an  hour ago revealed that the club hasn't
 arranged  anything  to  specifications.  "Basically,  they  ripped us off,"
 says  Howlett,  explaining  that  the  venue  has  set  up  the  same sound
 system  the  band  used  the  last  time they were here, when their show
 required  far less voltage. Which is a drug. These four Brits have crossed
 the  Atlantic  to  prove  that a "singer", an MC, a dancer, and a guy who
 stands  behind  a  rack  of  machinery  can  rock-hard.  But their Atlanta
 hosts,  and  most  of  the  American  press,  have  mistaken  them  for the
 rave band they started out as in 1990.

     The  whole  point of this tour-played almost entirely in small, sold-out
 rock  clubs  in  major  metropolises-  was  to  create  some  buzz a month
 before  the  relase of Prodigy's much-hyped third album, The Fat of the
 Land.  And  no  one's  pleased  that  an  under-amped  show  will  be their
 American farewell. Bozo-haired "Firestarter" Keith Flint, 27, is so upset
 that  he's blown off our interview, and Howlett has decided to blow off
 steam by grousing about the star-making machinery.

     "Did  you  see  what  Puffy  Combs  did?" asks Howlett. "He rolled into
 the  New York show with fucking security, bitches. And I laughed, to be
 honest.  I thought, What the fuck are you doing? That's not what this is
 all about."

     No  content  with  provoking a Bad Boy beatdown, Howlett goes on to
 slag  his own label, the Madonna-owned Maverick, by complaining that
 the  excess  number  of  "suits"  at  the  show and the party added up to
 "record-company    bullshit."   If  rock  clubs  won't  give  him  rock-star
 volume, at least he can flaunt some punk attitude.

     "In  England,  everyone  one  just  dances  at a party, has a good time.
 That  party in New York seemed to be about how many people we could
 get  in  there.  I  was  happy  to  tear myself away, have a wee chat with
 Bono- that was cool- and meet some fucking normal people."

     It's  been  a confusing 24 hours for Howlett. Soon after landing in New
 York,  his  face  ballooned  up  with  mysterious,  scary-looking  lumps. A
 photo  shoot  was  canceled,  a  specialist  was hurried to the hotel, and
 Keith  Flint-  the  Firestarter!-  served  as  nurse  until the doctor arrived.
 There  were  even  concerns  about  the  fate  of  that  night's show, but
 the  swelling  disappeared,  and  the  condition  was  chalked  up  to bad
 seafood.
                                     [01dP]
     The  indignities  of  life  on  the  road  are  never ending. Like the night
 before,  in  Boston.  The  smoky,  black-lit  dressing  room  at  Avalon is a
 mess:  Crushed  tortilla  chips  and  spilled  cereal  go  snap, crackle, and
 pop  every  time  someone  walks  across  the  room.  And  somehow,  the
 most  heinous teenage groupie of the five or six who have worked their
 way  backstage  has  attached  herself  to  Fliny.  Her leopard-skin dress
 seems    less    a    fashion    statement  than  a  sympton  of  some  bizarre
 degenerative  disease  that  first attacks the wardrobe, leaving behind
 a  distinctive  spotted  pattern,  then  invades  the  language centers of
 the  brain.  "Oh,  wait,  you're  English,  right?"  she  says.  "So you don't
 say,  `z',  you  say,  `zed',  right?"  "Yes,"  replies a slightly baffled Flint.
 "That's    awful,"    says    Leopard   Girl.  "`Cause  that  means  you  can't
 rhyme.  I  mean,  `zed'  doesn't  rhyme  with  anything.  You  know what I
 mean?" "No," says Flint, looking away blankly, "not really".

         Much    of    Prodigy's    American   tour  has  been  a  maze  of  mutual
 misunderstandings.   Techno  culture  is  in  love  with  futurist  imagery-
 third  waves,  next  millenniums,  logical  progressions-  but  the  tale  of
 Prodigy  looks  more  like  one  of  those  paradoxical,  time-travel loops
 that  sci-fi  writers  like  so  much.  Just  as America is finally moving into
 the  future  and  embracing  electronic  music,  Prodigy have arrived on
 our shores espousing the virtues of good old sweaty rock'n'roll.

     It's  so  much  simpler  when  the  group  is  onstage.  Flint  prances and
 preens,  one  moment  the  sadistic  punkmaster  giving the mosh pit the
 finger,   the  next  a  willing  catamite  cowering  before  his  audience's
 desire.  Keith "Maxim Reality" Palmer, 30, strides about, bare-chested,
 in  one  of  his  two  kilts-  there's  a  yellow  tartan number and a golden
 velvet  thing-  flashes  his  metallic  teeth,  and  waltzes into the crowd.
 Howlett,    rocking    back    and    forth,    pounds    the    shit    out   of  his
 well-anchored    rack    of   equipment.  Impassive  Leeroy  Thornhill,  27,
 highlights  the  music's  flow  with  some  old-school  hip-hop  soft-shoe.
 Prodigy's   set  is  almost  exactly  the  same  every  night:  "Firestarter"
 gets   a  rousing  reception  as  the  climax,  and  Flint  ends  the  song  by
 repeatedly    slamming    his    mike    against    the    floor,    its    amplified
 "thwack!"  cutting  out  after  the  third  whack  or  so,  which  is  just as
 well,  since  it's  not quite in sync with the beats. When the show's over,
 the  soundman  picks  up  the  dented  mike,  labels  it,  and places it in a
 zippered leather pouch.
                                       [02dP]
     It's  easy  to  smirk  at  this  theater of anger- of course it's an act. But
 it's    not  just  an  act.  The  cartoon  of  aggression  that  Prodigy  unfurl
 onstage  is  simply  a  jacked-up  version  of  the  four  personalities that
 ride in a crowded van from hotel to photo shoot to airport.

     "Hey,  Keith-  I'm the Fi-yer-start-er!" yells Flint one afternoon, doing
 a    wicked   imitation  of  an  American  promo  guy-  let's  call  him  Artie
 Fufkin-    who's   been  traveling  with  the  group  for  most  of  the  tour.
 "Except  he  put  a cockney accent on the last syllable, so it was, `Hey,
 Keith- I'm the Fi-yer- -start-uh!'"

     Before  Flint  became  the  Fi-yer-start-uh,  he  and Thornhill were the
 Prodigy  dancers,  whose  job  it  was to psych up the crowd. Behind the
 scenes,  they  play  the  same  roles,  lighting a fire whenever life on the
 road gets sluggish.

     "Anything  you  want!"  shouts  Flint, continuing his impersonation, in
 that unconvincing, but very funny, American accent all Europeans use
 when    they're    imitating  Yanks.  "I'm  not  talking  big  things,  I'm  not
 talking  small  things- I'm talking anything. You want bitches, you want
 drugs, you...just...let...me...know! Anything!"

     "Yeah,"  says  Thornhill,  "It  was thinking of ringing Artie up at five in
 the  morning  and  going,  like,  `Hey  Artie,  yeah,  I need some matches,
 could  you  just  run  to  the  corner  store?  Yeah,  matches.  Oh, you got
 some?  No- I want a fresh pack. Yeah- room 809, just slide'em under the
 door. Yeah, thanks.'"

      Maybe  Seinfeld  was  gathering  material  for  a  new  routine:  What's
 with...  electronica?  But  if  Jerry's  looking  for computer geeks to pick
 on,    he's   chosen  the  wrong  bunch  of  rock-loving,  hip-hop-digging,
 hardened party vets.

         "When    I    was    working  as  a  graphic  designer  for  a  magazine,"
 remembers  Howlett  about  the  British  dance scene of the late '80s, "I
 had  the  pirate  radio  on  all  day, and it was always,`Come to this rave.
 Come  to  this  rave.' And I was like, `Wow, this sounds fucking mad.'" At
 the  time,  Howlett  was  spinning  hip-hop:  He  once  entered  a  DJ-tape
 competition  under  two  different  aliases  and  came  in  first and third.
 But  he  was  starting to feel "that there was no room for white people"
 in  the  scene,  and  when  his  crew,  Cut  to  Kill, used his demos to get a
 record    deal    that    didn't  include  him,  he  jumped  into  club  culture
 full-on.

     In  the  summer  of  1989 acid house ruled England, and the suburbs of
 Essex  had  a  lively  club  scene.  The  biggest local venue was the Barn,
 where  "Mr.  C,"  famous  as  one half of the Shamen, was the regular DJ.
 One of the more noticeable people on the scene was Keith Flint.

     As  a  child,  Flint  was  known  to  dance  in  his  mom's  kitchen  to  Led
 Zeppelin's  "Rock  and  Roll."  Then  he  got  into reggae and ska, falling
 under    the    sway    of    fashion    early  on.  "People  think,  `Oh,  you're
 onstage,  so  you've  got  to  style  your hair'"- but at the age of eight, I
 was  going  to  the  barbers  with drawings of how I wanted my hair, and
 they were like, `You can't do this with your hair, you can't'"

    Eventually, Flint dropped out of school and hitchhiked to Israel with a
 friend.  He  labored  on  a  moshav- a more remunerative, less communal
 version  of  a  kibbutz-  later  hanging  out  on  the  streets  in Jerusalem,
 selling    hair    wraps    and   jewelry.  When  he  returned  to  England,  he
 immediately got into the rave scene, and met Thornhill.
                                          [03dP]
     "Leeroy-  you  can't  miss  him,"  says  Flint  of his 6'6" bandmate. "He
 was  the  best  dancer  I'd ever seen, and I wanted to dance like him. We
 used    to  go  to  clubs,  pick  up  on  the  same  vibe,  and  find  ourselves
 dancing  together.  That  bit  onstage,  when we dance together, that's
 the Barn!"

     Howlett  Dj'd  a  lot  of the parties, and Flint would run up to the booth
 with  song  requests.  "Liam'd  say,  `This  one?'  and  I'd  dance and he'd
 pick  up  on my vibe and put on another record with that vibe. One day,
 Liam  said,  `Here's a tape of all those tunes you've been asking for, and
 on  the  other  side  is  my music.'" Impressed, Flint and Thornhill offered
 to get up onstage and dance along to Howlett's tunes.

                 But        the    fledgling    crew    needed    a    frontman,    so    their
 soon-to-be-manager,  Ziggy,  introduced them to Maxim, a hip-hop and
 reggae    MC    of    Jamaican    parentage    from   Peterborough,  an  hour
 northwest  of  Essex.  "In  them  days, to be a good MC, you had to write
 lyrics    every    day,"    Maxim    remembers.   Prodigy,  however,  were  a
 different  story.  "I found the dance scene easy to MC to because there
 wasn't    any  lyrical  foundation.  Lyrics  are  just  fillers.  The  last  thing
 people  want  is  to  hear  you  talking about life and politics. In a way, it
 took    a    bit    away    from   me;  the  lyrics  I  used  to  write  were  quite
 deep-politics,  old age, everyday life. My lyric style was not just taking
 MCs  out-  it  was  reality.  That's  where the name `Maxim Reality' came
 from."

     With  all  four  pieces  in  place,  Prodigy  had  their  first  hit, "Charly,"
 which  Howlett  created by sampling the voice of an animated cat from
 a  children's public-safety Tv ad. Though the band experienced a press
 backlash    after    a  spate  of  kiddie-techno  imitations  like  "Sesame's
 Treet",  their  '92  debut  album,  The  Prodigy  Experience, entered the
 British  charts  an  No.  12  and  sold more than 200.000 copies in the U.K.
 The  follow-up,  '94's  Music  For  The  Jilted  Generation,  which dropped
 Experience's  hyperfast  breakbeats  and  nitrous-oxide vocals in favor
 of  slower,  harder beats and sampled guitars, did ever better, reaching
 No.    1.    Along    with    the   tougher  textures  came  a  more  embattled
 posture:  Songs  like "Their Law" took a sand against anti-rave Criminal
 Justice  Act,  and Maxim brought more hip-hop aggression to th mix. But
 in  America,  "British  dance  music  was  a  real no-go area," says Daniel
 Miller,  chairman  of  Mute,  which  licensed  Jilted. "It's as if there was a
 note    at    Immigration    saying,    'Do    Not    Let    These  Bands  Into  the
 Country.'"  So  there  sat Prodigy, just another successful British dance
 band who couldn't get a table on this side of the Atlantic.

     Until last year, that is, when Flint jumped up onto a table and howled,
 "Hey,  kids,  let's  put  on  a  show!" That show was called "Firestarter,"
 and    it's    been    playing    in  a  clubs  for  nearly  a  year.  Dropping  the
 disconcerting,    rave-damaged  hippie  look  he'd  sported  for  a  years,
 Flint  suddenly found a way to impose his over-the-top personality on a
 mass    audience.    His    Firestarter    was    a   variation  on  Road  Warrior
 chic-eyeliner,    pierced    tongue,    Union    Jack   no-hawk,  metal  bone
 through  the  nose,  INFLICTED  belly tattoo. Then he found a voice to go
 with the look- a techno update of Jonny Rotten's- and a message to go
 with  it:  "I  am  Keith,  hear  me  roar."  "I  am the bitch you hated / Filth
 infatuated,"  Flint  sang,  creating  a  divide in British society as wide as
 the  one  that  runs down the middle of his scalp. Members of the Fourth
 Estate,  fearing  an arcon epidemic, called for a ban of the video, while
 a  group  of  London  artists  mounted an exhibition of paintings inspired
 by Flint's persona.

         Guy   Oseary,  the  24-year-old  head  of  A&R  at  Maverick  Records,
 remembers  being  in  London  the summer "Firestarter" broke "I lost my
 mind,   I  went  straight  home,  I  was  on  a  mission.  I  would  have  done
 anything to get this band."

     Oseary  started  the  bidding  early,  but  the  "Firestarter" video went
 into  heavy  rotation  on  MTV,  and  everyone jumped in. After Madonna
 claimed    that    Prodigy    was  her  favorite  workout  music,  the  group
 signed  a  reported  $5  million  contract  (thought  no  one  involved has
 been willing to confirm the details of the deal).

    Flint's prominence has meant more money and exposure for the band,
 but  at  the  cost  of  a  nasty  little  backlash.  Rave  culture  has  its own
 shibboleths,    every    bit    as    inflexible    as    rock's  strictures  against
 synthesized    dance    rhythms.    And   one  of  them  is  that  there's  not
 supposed  to  be  a  figure  at  the  center  distracting  the  dancers from
 their    communal    vibe,    or    channeling    their    communal   energy  in
 dangerous directions.

     "A  lot  of  people  get  into the party scene, the rave scene- the shite
 rave    scene,"    mutters    Flint   disgustedly,  as  if  something  slimy  has
 gotten    caught   on  his  tongue  stud,  "and  they  think  it's  about  the
 Internet,  the  future,  technology,  play  stations-  and  it  isn't!  People
 just  do  not  realize  that  eight,  nine  years  ago,  the  party  scene was
 about    breaking    into   warehouses,  setting  up  a  sound  system,  cars
 parked  across  everything,  riot  police  showing  up  with  dogs,  armor,
 surrounding  the  building,  waiting  for  their  warrant.  And  by the time
 they  get  in, they're so pissed they beat you up. That has nothing to do
 with  the  Internet, that has nothing to do with silver fucking foil, silver
 space  suits,  anything that glows. It's embarrassing to get dragged into
 that.  I  can't  go  out  on  a  stage  and  have  glow  sticks  waved  at me!
 That's not represenatative of anything."

     Flint's  a  rock  star  now, who, by his own admission, doesn't go out to
 the  clubs  that  much  anymore.  But  he  still  clings  to  memories of the
 underground, when he was there, hoping that if he can hold onto what
 was  right  about that moment, he won't drown in the sea of hype. Even
 though        Prodigy        have        profited        from    the    dance    scene's
 commercialization,  the  group  was  quick  to shift gears when th scene
 grew    stale.    "When   it  happens,  it  happens,"  explains  Flint.  "When
 enough  people  have  an  undying  passion for something- `Yeah, we're
 gonna  do  this'- more people get into it, and you say with it until it gets
 to  the  stage  where  everyone  thinks  they  should  be into it. And then
 you've got to get out."

     Prodigy are trying to get out alive, trying to meld what they still love
 about    dance    music  with  what  they're  drawn  to  in  rock,  trying  to
 reconcile  their  underground  posture  of  yore-  the band has famously
 refused  to  appear  on Britain's Top Of The Pops TV show- with the fact
 that   their  American  breakthrough  was  largely  dependent  on  Flint's
 haircut.

     When I ask Flint what supervillain he'd like to play in the next Batman
 movie,   he  replies,  "Capitain  America."  When  I  explain  that  Captain
 America   is  a  superhero,  he  pauses  for  a  moment.  "Captain  America
 gone bad," he says.

     "We're  not  Oasis," says Howlett about Prodigy's American blitzkrieg.
 "We don't want everyone to like us."

     He  seems  to  have  gotten his wish. The results are in, and four out of
 six    rock  critics  agree:  Prodigy  suck.  The  Boston  Globe  and  the  Los
 Angeles  Times  ran  middling-to-favorable  notices.  But  the rest of the
 reviews    were    scathing.    "Little    variety,"    sniffed    Toronto's  NOW
 magazine.  "Lacked texture and variety," sniffed the Chicago Tribune.
 "Short on variety," sniffed The Washington Post.

     The sad thing, sniff, is that none of these folks are entirely wrong. On
 tracks  like  "Firestarter"  and  "Breathe,"  The  Fat  Of  The  Land  hits  a
 bracing  synthesis of techno and rock. At other times, though, the rock
 part    of    that    equation   is  of  the  worst  sort-  the  kind  of  blustery,
 lumbering   radio  fodder  that  punk  and  grunge  hoped  to  overthrow.
 Which    is    odd,    because   if  you  ask  Howlett  what  sort  of  music  he
 admires,    he    cites   "the  ones  who  produce  the  rawest  and  realest
 sounds-  Rage  Against  The  Machine,  Wu-Tang,  people  like  that." But
 there's  a  catch.  "The  political  side  of  their  music I'm not into," says
 Howlett.    "Like    with  Public  Enemy.  I'm  not  into  what  Chuck  D  was
 talking  about.  I  liked  it  on  a bumb level- the beats, the way his voice
 sounded.  I wanted to hear Flavor Flav going, `Yeah, boyee' I wanted to
 hear  the  dumb  aspects  of  his  music,  that's  what  I  was into. I have a
 philosophy  that  our  music  works  on  a  really dumb level, which is the
 level  that  most  people  understand-  they don't sit around wondering,
 `What  is  that  about?'  It's  just  direct.  We're  not  trying  to  think  of a
 deep message for what we're doing."

[42m][CENTER]Writed from SPIN Magazine by Maîy
