PRODIGY
[04b]
[22m][42m][CENTER]Prodigy
[25m][44m]   GOD-DAAMMMNNNN!!!! DID you see the size of that girl's breasts?!!??"

     Keith  Flint's  arms  are flailing desperately. He's trying to stop himself
 crashing  off  his  stool    on to the floor of the Toronto television studio.
 Either  side of him, bandmates Leeroy Thornhill, Maxim Reality and Liam
 Howlett        sport        expressions       that    range    from    mock-resigned
 head-shaking    to    bouts    of   adolescent  giggles.  Somewhere  out  of
 camera  range  a  tall,  bearded  man  called  Bob,  whose  job is to sell as
 many    Prodigy  records  as  possible  in  Candada,  is  bent  double,  as  if
 someone's    just    thumped    him   in  the  stomach.  It's  difficult  to  tell
 whether  he's  laughing  or  crying.  The  flustered  presenter  rustles her
 sheaf of notes and ploughs gamely on.

      "Is  this  the  sort  of  thing  that  happens  backstage?"  she  asks  the
 Prodigy boys. "You get to meet large-breasted girls?"

     Liam  is  the  first  to  recover:  "I'm  not  really  into  large breasts," he
 offers,  attempting  to steer the interview off the rocks. But Keith, who
 will later claim that he didn't realise the show was going out live, is still
 gazing  manically  through  the studio's plate glass window and off into
 the street.

    "My God!" he blurts, a little calmer. "It was like an eclipse of the sun!"
 Regaining  his  posture  and stifling an expletive under his breath, Keith
 Flint  rolls  his  eyes  and  gets  back  to  the job in hand. He doesn't wear
 the  look  of  a  man  whose  puerile  yet  strangely endearing behaviour
 has  just  been  broadcast  live  to  a  quarter  of a million Canadians. But
 then  again,  confounding  expectations  and getting up people's noses
 if exactly what the Prodigy, and Keith in particular, are all about.

     The  Prodigy  have been in Canada less than 15 hours. They only have
 another 22 to go. Strap yourselves in: it's going to be a hell of a ride.

      THE  STORY's  pretty  familiar  by  now.  Dancefloor  buddies  Flint  and
 Thornhill  approach  the  young  DJ  at Braintree's The Barn night club in
 1991,    hoping  to  get  a  mix  tape  off  him.  The  DJ,  Liam,  obliges,  but
 sticksa  selection  of  his own compositions on Side Two. Blown away by
 his  tunes,  Keith  and  Leeroy  offer  to  dance  onstage  to Liam's music-
 happily, he's just signed a record deal with Beggars Banquet subsidiary
 XL.  A  mutual  friend  introduces  the  trio  to  Maxim,  an  MC  weaned on
 reggae  sound  systems.  They  don't  meet  until  the  night  of their first
 gig, in east London. It all goes swimmingly, and the Prodigyis born.
                                     [01dP]
     After  a  string  of largely instrumental rave anthems make the band a
 regular  feature  in  the  upper  reaches  of  the  singles  chart,  and with
 their    manic    appearances    at    the    huge   parties  of  the  early  '90s
 becoming    an   increasingly  trumpeted  attraction,  Liam  finds  himself
 staring  out  from  a  stage  in  Scotland  at  15.000  E'd  up  clubbers  and
 decides it's all far too easy. Ditching the format that's brought him and
 the  band  fame  and  fortune,  but  not a great deal of respect, Howlett
 goes  back  to  the  drawing  board  and creates a brooding masterpiece
 of  dark  dance  majesty.  Trailed  by  the  massive single 'No Good (Start
 The  Dance)',  'Music For The Jilted Generation' is salivated over by fans
 and  critics  alike,  goes  straight  into  the  album  charts an Number One
 and  is  nominated  for  the  1994  Mercury  Music  Prize.  Liam proves it's
 possible  to  be  both  credible  and  successful  at the same time, but he
 unwittingly gives himself a bit of a headache: now does he top that?"

     Then,  at the start of last year, a new Prodigy record punches its way
 out  of radio speakers and into the national consciousness like no other
 before.    'Firestarter'   sounds  pretty  strange  anyway,  but  the  vocal,
 from  Keith,  is  coruscating.  Steadfastly  refusing  to  appear  on Top Of
 The  Pops,  the  band  end up forcing the Beeb to screen the stark black
 and  white  video  for  the  track  when  it  debuts  at  Number  One.  With
 Keith  cavorting  around  a  poorly  lit  underground  tunnel,  screeching
 about    being    "the    twisted    Firestarter",    the    clip    arouses    more
 complaints  than  TOTP  have  ever  had  before.  And  in the midst of the
 attendant  tabloid  fury,  the  Prodigy  suddenly  become  Britain's most
 controversial pop stars.

     One single later, the genuinely unsettling 'Breathe' (their best-selling
 release  to date), and it's time for album number three. Only by now the
 buzz  around  the  group,  particularly  in  America, is huge. Hailed as the
 figureheads  of  a  new British invasion of 'electronica' or 'digi-rock' by
 the  US  media, the Prodigy blow out a planned triple-bill Stateside tour
 with  the  Chemical  Brothers  and  the  Orb.  The  album  is  delayed.  The
 group  are  reported  to  have  turned  down  the  chance  to hitch a ride
 across  the  globe  in  the  company  of  U2,  and the rumours that Liam is
 having difficuty finishing the record gather momentum.
                                     [02dP]
     Then  suddenly,  the  band's  UK  label  announce  a  firm  release date:
 journalists  and  industry  people  are flown in a fleet of helicopters to a
 farm  in  the  Hertfordshire countryside to hear some of the new record,
 'The  Fat  Of  The  Land'. It's slower, more hip-hop-oriented than before,
 with  more  vocal  tracks  and  guitars,  and is more than enough to push
 them ever further up fame's greasy pole.

     And,  confirming  that they're ready, the group finally schedule some
 North American gigs. Which brings us to Toronto.

      TORONTO  IS  a  sprawling  and  surprisingly  green  city,  home  to  four
 million  people.  Sat  on the banks of Lake Ontario, an inland water mass
 bigger  than  many  countries,  the  city  can lay impressive claim to the
 world's    tallest  free-standing  structure,  the  CN  Tower.  Beneath  the
 revolving  restaurant  near  its top, a section of floor has been removed
 and  replaced  with  glass.  Visitors  are  encouraged  to  walk across the
 three-inch    thick    panes    while    looking   1.500ft  straight  down-  an
 unearthly  experience  lent extra weirdness by the gentle, but far from
 imperceptible  swaying  you can feel. If the CN Tower was rigid it would
 snap,  so  the  designers  had  to  make  sure  it  had  enough  give  in it to
 move a bit in the constant winds.

     Keith  hasn't  got  time  on  this  visit to Toronto, but he'd love to walk
 across  the  glass  floor  in  the CN Tower. It's the sort of 'buzz' that rules
 his  life.  The  same  sort  of  feeling he gets when he's on stage with the
 Prodigy,    dancing    to    Liam's  breakbeat-fuelled  headfuck  tunes  or,
 better still, bellowing his own twisted lyrics across the top of them. But
 when  the band goes months without playing live, as has been the case
 for    much    of    the    past    year,   and  Keith  needs  to  hit  those  highs
 somehow,    he'll    turn    to    his   beloved  Fireblade  motorbike.  And  do
 everything he can to get to the point where he almost crashes.

         "Every    now  and  then  you  have  something  that's  a  near-death
 situation,"    Keith   explains  quite  matter  of  factly.  "I  used  to  enjoy
 crashing  as  much  as riding. The slow motion trip that you get as things
 are  coming  towards  you,  and  the  way  your  head works under those
 situations,  when  you  are  doing  speeds  of,  like,  180  mph...  I imagine
 sometimes  how  fast my back wheel is spinning at that speed, and kind
 of  look  at  bridges  as  they're  coming up, and imagine hitting'em. You
 can    almost    imagine    how    far   you  would  fly  if  you  hit  something
 stationary  at  that  speed.  At  those  speeds  your  eyes  kind of flicker,
 and  what  you  see  is  gone  as  you  see it. And that's quite a good little
 buzz."

     "I  used  to  do  motocross,"  he continues. "I used to like my forearms
 weren't  gonna  hold  on  to  the  bike.  So  that  when  you went into the
 jumps  you  were  kind  of  unsure  if  you  were gonna be able to hold on
 any longer. And I used to like that sort of tempting fate situation."
                                     [03dP]
         Liam    worries    about    Keith  when  he's  out  on  his  bike.  He's  had
 first-hand  experience  of  his  friend's  predilection  for pushing himself
 and  his  machine  to  the  limits.  "I  was  on  his  bike doin' 160 down the
 A12,   and  I  was  thinking:  'Fuck,  I'm  not  gonna  go  much  faster  than
 this,'"  Howlett  recalls.  "I was in the fast lane, and I turned around and
 there  was  Keith,  going  past  me  at  180.  This  was in the middle of the
 day,    there  was  loads  of  cars  around,  and  he  passed  me  about  ten
 inches  away  from me. He's nutter on a bike, but he's got good control.
 But yeah, I do worry about him a lot."

         Liam    prefers    cars   to  bikes,  but  he  doesn't  think  four-wheeled
 transport is going to prolong Keith's lifespan.

     "He  drives  a  fucking  car  like he drives a bike," says the production
 and  keyboard  genius. "It got to the stage where I didn't actually want
 to  get  in  a  car  with  him. He'd try and get through really small spaces.
 I've  had  a  couple  of  crashes  with  him  in cars. But he's not stupid. He
 used  to  be  stupid,  but  he's  not  any more. He did have a crash, but he
 chilled  out  after  that.  It  was  good  really,  he  needed that. And after
 that  he  calmed  down,  but  he's  got  worse  on  the  bike. But that's all
 part of his personality, it brings that out."

     AND  IT's  Keith's personality- specifically, the parts of it that enabled
 him  to  write,  perform  and  record  the  vocal  to 'Firestarter'- that has
 been  the  decisive  factor  in  the  Prodigy's  rise  to  the top of the pile.
 Without  overlooking  the  contributions of Maxim and Leeroy (of which
 more  later),  it's  Keith's instantly recognisable image and eviscerating
 vocal  display  that set the band on their current path. Leeroy says that
 "all  the  lyrics  (in  'Firestarter')  are just totally Keith." He also reckons
 that  Keith's  a  "watery"  person,  and that he gets affected by the full
 moon.  Liam,  for  his part, reckons that "without his drive, and the fact
 he's  a  brilliant  performer-  he's  the  best  live  performer in England- it
 wouldn't  have  worked."  But  for  Keith  it  wasn't  simply a question of
 capturing  something  of  his  moods and emotions: in a manner that has
 absolutely    nothing    to    do    with    the    song's   commercial  success,
 'Firestarter' changed Keith's life.

     "When  I  was  so very, very small- eight, nine, ten, when tunes stirred
 me  up  more  than  anything  else-  I  wanted  to  smack  my head on the
 wall.  I  really wanted to hit my head on the wall and run at the wall and
 stuff,"  he  remembers.  "I  just couldn't... get it... out. And that's what's
 happening  now.  I  know  that  kid  is coming out now. That's why doing
 the  vocals  is  so  cool,  because  it's  another  way out. And that's why I
 think  it's so honest in a way, because I can relate that to something no
 one  used  to  see.  People  used to hear it, and someone used to have to
 clear  up  afterwards,  but  no  one used to see that. I don't think people
 realise how honest it is."

     "Keith's  dad's  quite  successful,  and  because Keith was a little mod
 and    then    he    was  a  biker,  there  was  such  a  clash  there",  Leeroy
 postulates  the  following  day.  "I  imagine  that  his  dad expected a bit
 more    from   him  than  he  got.  But  now  the  band's  come  along,  he's
 finally realised he can do so much."

     "When  I  first  did  'Firestarter', I felt: 'Fucking hell, Liam has made me
 like  myself  for  the  first  time,'" Keith confesses, animatedly. "For the
 first    time    I'd    liked    something    I'd    done.   Not  just  musically,  but
 personally.  It's hard to explain just in that one sentence, but from that
 moment  on  I  loved  Liam  to  bits  even more. 'Fuckin' 'ell, you can't do
 that,  you've  cheated  my  own  mind!  I  got  home  and  I  put it on and I
 thought:  'I  fuckin' like this', and I felt this massive wave of emotion..."
 Did you cry? "No!"

       This  child-scarer,  this  twisted  firestarter,  this  motorbike-mayhem
 trouble-causer  clearly isn't keen to break the unwritten golden rule of
 male  behaviour  and  admit  to  a blubbing session, even when hit by an
 event    so    profound  it  caused  him  to  reevaluate  the  evidently  low
 opinion he sometimes has of himself.

     But  there's  a  side  to  Keith  that  the  cameras and the tabloid hacks
 won't    see  and  can't  comprehend:  for  all  his  speed-freak  adrenalin
 rushes    and    his  on-stage  menace,  Keith  Flint  has  a  softer  side.  For
 example,  he's  really  into  gardening. ("You won't be able to find Keith
 for  a  week  because  he's  out  in the garden, confides Leeroy. "Or he's
 out  digging  a pond in his garden that's four feet deep and 20-odd foot
 long.  He  loves  his  gardening.")  Hi listens to Pink Floyd on his Walkman
 when  he's  in  the  bath.  During  the  few  hours  VOX  spends with him in
 Toronto,  he  wanders  off  into  the  garden  of a derelict house to get a
 closer  look  at  some  squirrels  and,  later,  attempts  to  make  polite, if
 excitable,   conversation  with  a  skunk.  And,  even  when  the  humour
 turns  a  deep  shade  of  blue  in the back of the tour bus, Keith remains
 easygoing  and  personable company. He is, in short, a lovely man. We'll
 try again.

   You did, didn't you?

     "There  was  a  tear..."  he  pauses,  half-smilinng, starting into space.
 "...the  throat  went taut... it made me highly emotional. That was quite
 mental.  An  absolutely  mental  feeling.  And  that," he vows, turning to
 fix me squarely in the eye, "is as honest as it gets."

       ARROW  HALL  is  a  massive,  barrel-vaulted  shed  on  the  outskirts  of
 Toronto.  Close  to  the  airport  and  located  on  what  appears to be an
 industrial    estate  overflowing  with  bingo  halls,  it's  a  far  from  ideal
 setting  for  the  Prodigy's  auspicious  first  gig  on  this 'break America'
 tour.  With  neither  the  intimacy  of  the  originally  planned club show-
 the    1.700   tickets  sold  out  in  a  staggering  seven  minutes-  nor  the
 wide-open    spaces    a   festival  affords,  the  venue  offers  an  uneasy
 compromise.

        Clearly,  it  would've  been  easier  and,  in  term  of  reaching  a  new
 audience,    much  more  productive,  for  the  band  to  have  bitten  the
 corporate  bullet  and  accepted  the  offer  extended  to  them  to take
 part    in   the  year's  biggest  world  tour.  But  Liam  Howlett  delights  in
 making things difficult for himself.

     "I  like  U2,  I  think  they're  a  fuckin'  really  good band, but it wasn't
 hard  decision,  we  didn't  sit  there  umm-ing and ahh-ing about it," he
 explains,  mulling  over  the  Prodigy's  rejection  of  an offer to support
 the  Irish rock behemoths, "I personally thought we weren't readyto do
 that,  and  we  wanted  to  crack  America  on  our own level. If we don't
 crack    America,    I    won't   be  sitting  here  thinking:  'Fuckin'  'ell,  we
 should've  done  that  U2 tour,' because that's compromising, and if we
 don't crack it, we don't crack it. I don't care."

    Howlett surveys the filling space of Arrow Hall with calm detachment.
 The  in-house  DJ  is playing a selection of rave and techno tracks in the
 minutes    before    the    band's    set,    something    Liam's    not   entirely
 comfortable with.

     "We  tried  to  have  hip-hop before going on, but it just didn't work,"
 he muses.

     It's  not  just  the  involvement  of seminal American rapper Kool Keith
 (whose    'Dr    Octagon'    relase    on  Mo'  Wax  last  year  is  probably  his
 bestknown  work  in  Britain)  on  'The  Fat  Of The Land' that pitches the
 new record closer to hip-hop than the Prodigy have been before. Liam,
 Maxim  and  Leeroy  were  all  deeply  involved  in  the  first real wave of
 hip-hop   that  broke  on  British  shores  in  the  mid-to-late  '80s.  Liam's
 formative   experiences  as  a  DJ  were  all  based  in  the  idiom:  indeed,
 when  the  sent  off  his  taped entry to a hip-hop DJ mixing competition
 on    London   radio  station  GLR  in  1987,  his  skills  were  developing  so
 quickly  it  was  only  a  matter  of  days  before  he'd  surpassed  himself
 again.  A  second  entry  under  another  name  was prompty dispatched
 before the deadline. He won both third and first prizes.

    "When people were talking about the Prodigy being techno, that was
 a  loose term, but we labelled 'techno', because I wasn't as stupid as to
 think  we  were,"  Howlett  postulated.  "We  weren't  ever  techno. I've
 never written a techno record in my life."

     "I  love  the humour in the music," continues the man who rates Skint
 as  his  favourite  label.  "There's  definitely  a bit of humour in what we
 do.  I  mean,  'Smack  My  Bitch  Up'-  you  can't  think  I'm  serious  about
 writing  a  record  about  smacking women up. There's humour involved
 in the tunes, it's got to be like that."

[42m][CENTER]Writed by Maîy from VOX Magazine
